The Boreas disaster.

On the night of 28" November 1807, the warship Boreas found herself on the
Hanois reef during a terrible storm and sank at half past five in the morning the next
day. There were more than one hundred and ninety-five officers and sailors on board.
The ship left the harbour of St. Peter Port during the aftemoon of the 28" when she
received a message that a small boat was in difficulty near the west coast with two
men on board. Even though it was very bad weather, the Boreas found the boat and
began to tow it towards the harbour. It began to get dark and the sailors were ordered
to watch out for any danger. The wind came from the north-west and the wooden
warship began to roll with each roller. Suddenly a sailor shouted, “There are rocks
straight ahead!”

Too late, the captain did not have time to avoid hitting the rocks. He gave orders to

hoist more sail and the ship advanced about two hundred yards and for a moment the
men on board believed that the warship had got away. But no! A moment later she
had struck harder on another rock and this time she was holed and the sea came in
fast. The two men in the little boat which the Boreas had taken in tow decided that it
was time to save themselves and they cut the rope and went off towards the coast.
They reached the beach but, it is said, they did not try to alert the authorities of the
disaster.
The cannons were fired to try and let the inhabitants along Rocquaine and L’Erée
know that a ship was in great danger at Les Hanois, but they thought that it was a
French ship and they were not going to help it. When the captain realised that there
would be no help. He ordered that each man be given a measure of spirits and the
small boats put into the water. One would go and seek help and the other two would
take the sick and wounded ashore. They would return to the Boreas to fetch other
sailors, The seamen who reached land at Pleinmont escaped up the cliffs but, it is said,
did not help their comrades.

There is a great deal of information about the wreck in the newspapers of that time,
much more than can be included here, but it seems that the captain told his seamen
still aboard the Boreas to find shelter in the stern of the ship. They stayed there all the
rest of the night, but early in the morning they heard a terrible noise and the ship
slipped downthe rocks and under the sea.

The crew was thrown into the sea, but there were some who climbed up the rocks or

on to rafts which they had made from driftwood during the night. The captain
managed to climb on to one of these rafts, but he died after a short time and the sea
took his body. When it was light, the men on the rocks were saved by fishermen from
Rocquaine who, at last, decided to go to sea to see what was happening.
During all this time, the soldiers at the fort at Pezeries did not hear or see what was
happening at Les Hanois. They were too busy with the sick and the women who were
at the fort that night. In a letter from Vice-Admiral Sir James Saumarez, (who was in
charge of the navy in Guernsey), to the Admiralty in London, he said that he had sent
two ships, the Brillant and the Jamaica to Les Hanois to aid the Boreas but they could
do nothing for the wreck. They saved thirty men from the Hanois reef and other men
from the small boats were saved as well. He mentioned, also, the courage and good
behaviour of Captain Robert Scott, his officers and crew during this terrible night.
With great regret he had to report that the captain and more than one hundred and
twenty of the crew had been lost.
