Two cargoes of coal.

On the 23" August 1906, a ship which was carrying a cargo of 1,300 tons of coal hit
the reef of rocks to the north of Vazon known as the Grunes. The Swansea was on
route from Swansea in Wales to St. Malo. It had a crew of fourteen men and a boy
who were under the command of Captain Hall of Jersey. When the ship left Swansea
it wasn’t long before it was entirely enveloped in a fog so thick that they saw nothing
before the ship hit the Grunes.

A little later it slid down the rock and into the sea, but there was so much damage to
the hull of the ship that the captain ordered the crew to get into the small life-boats.
The tug Assistance arrived and towed the steamer to Vazon where it ended up on the
sandy beach. A large part of the cargo of coal was thrown out of the ship on to the
sand to lighten it and temporary repairs were done. There were a lot of people who
went to Vazon each day to see how the work was progressing. The Swansea was
salvaged soon after — but I have never found out what happened to the coal!

I can remember the wreck of the Fermain on the 29" December 1952. She belonged
to the company O. Dorey & Sons of Guernsey and she was a ship of one thousand and
eighty tons. That day, she was approaching the harbour at Saint Sampson’s and had
reduced speed to enter the harbour. As this was happening, there was a delay and she
was carried by the tide and wind which was very strong. The captain couldn’t have
enough steam from his engines in time and the ship drifted on to the Black Rock
outside the harbour. The cargo was essential to the island, so a causeway was built
between the Fermain and the road which goes round the coast there. An opening was
cut in the side of the hull and the coal was loaded into wagons which took it to the
coal merchant. Later the ship was sold to the company J. Upham & Sons of Guemsey
and it was broken up and sold as scrap iron. Today we can see what remains of the
bridge which leads to the Black Rock which was well named when the coal was being
taken out of the ship!
