The wreck of the Courier.

The weather was beautiful that day. There was no wind and the sea was calm and
smooth like glass. It was April 30" 1906. In the morning, when the ship Courier II
left the harbour of St. Peter Port, there were about eighteen passengers on board and
nine crew members with the captain. The passengers were looking forward to seeing
their relations and friends in Sark, or to spending a good day there.

At five o’clock the boat was ready to return to Guernsey with twenty-seven
passengers on board. The Courier left the little harbour at Creux as the tide was rising
and the captain took his marks towards the Great Russel just as he had done dozens of
times before. It was still fine and the visibility was good, but the sea had become a
little rough.

The boat was to the south of Jethou, near some rocks called Les Ferriéres when —
according to what a passenger said later at the enquiry — she hit a rock. Everyone on
board heard a dreadful noise, as if the propeller had been ripped from the ship. The
captain ordered the lifeboats to be put into the water and then he steered the boat on to
Les Ferriéres. He thought that he could save the passengers and perhaps the ship.

The steamer sank very quickly and those who were in the small boats were thrown
into the sea. The crew feared that the engine was going to blow up because so much
steam was coming out of the ship. There were twelve or thirteen people in a small
boat, but there were even more in the water with life-belts. Even though it all
happened so quickly, there was no panic. For about half an hour the boats picked up
the people in the water and took them to the reef of rocks, even though the sea was
rolling a lot now.

The boat Alert arrived and put its life-boats in the water, and soon the pilot boat
Vixen followed her and picked up the people from the rocks. The two boats stayed
there until seven in the evening to look for survivors and then they returned to St.
Peter Port.

By the time that those who had been saved landed, there was a great crowd of
people on the White Rock and all along the jetties. The disaster was seen from the
town and there were those who said that there were ten thousand people at the harbour
that evening. By this time, the Courier had sunk completely. The Afert had fourteen
survivors on board and many of them were injured. A Mr. Thorburn was picked up
from the sea, and even though he still had on his life-belt, a doctor pronounced him
dead. The boat Vixen arrived with the people who had been on the rocks - one of
whom was the captain. He had stayed on board the Courier but he had been thrown
into the water and had been saved.

When all the passengers were counted, the authorities found out that four men and
three women had been drowned and three of the crew also, One of the passengers was
the Seigneur of Sark —Mr. W.F. Collings —but the report in the Press did not say
whether he was one of the drowned.

The next day, it was discovered that the Courier had sunk in sixty feet of water. All
the post was lost and nothing was saved from the ship. Later, a diver went out to the
wreck to examine it and it was decided to raise the Courier from the sea-bed. The
captain was partner-owner of the ship but she was not insured. On July 30" some tugs
and the Alert went to raise her and took her towards the harbour in town. However at
ebb tide the wreck touched bottom and it was left there until August 4" when it was
raised again on the rising tide and this time it was towed by the Alert to the
Cambridge Berth. The cable snapped but the wreck was almost dry. When she was
examined, the authorities found a split from the stern to the middle of the ship on the 
starboard side under the water-line. On the other side, to port, there were holes and it
was possible to see right through the ship. A search of the boat found the body of a
man but he was unrecognisable. Some jewellery found with him identified him —-he
was a Mr. Walter Long from Bradford in England. His wife had been saved.

On the same day, August 4”, a body was found on a beach near Cherbourg. It was a
man and he was about sixty years old. At the Court of Enquiry which followed the
disaster, Captain Whales was found guilty of negligence. He should have taken more
care and the ship was too near the rock La Gouliniére.

On October 5" 1906, the Courier was towed to Southampton where she was built
and the company Day &Summers did the repairs on the ship which they had
constructed. By the month of December that same year, the Courier was in Guernsey
‘once more to continue her service as she had done for years. During the First World
War she was painted grey, but during the Second World War, the ship found herself
in Scottand, on British Admiralty service on the Clyde. The little steamer came back
to the island in July 1947 and there was a great crowd of people at the harbour to
shout, “Hurray!” and blowing of fog-horns when she entered the pier-heads.
However, unfortunately before the end of the year, the owners sold her because she
was too old and cost too much to maintain. She was taken to Holland where she was
broken up for scrap. That is how the story of the Courier I] ended, but for a long time
the people of Guernsey remembered her. Some verses about the wreck were even
written by a Mr. Amy.

The ship which sank near Jethou was the second Courier. The first boat went
between Guernsey, Alderney and Cherbourg from 1876 to1913 with passengers and
cargo. The same company which were the proprietors of the Courier I, Alderney
Steam Packet Co., bought the Courier 7 in 1883. She was a little bigger and did the
same work on the same route,

