The tragedy of the Stella.

ear of the nineteenth century saw the worst maritime tragedy that the
The Be ver seen. On the Thursday before Easter, 30 March » the London and
islands ha »n Railway Company had _arranged an excursion to the islands of
South- Westen Jersey. It was the first daylight service for the 1899 season. There was a
Guernsey an rvice all year round, but during the summer it had introduced another
night-time se There was a special excursion every Easter before the start of the
daily Se cernin of May. The price of the tickets was special too — twenty-five
service a ee he first class and seventeen shilllings and sixpence for the second class
shillings nm return.
from Slee the Stella, under the command of Captain William Reeks, that
That day one hundred and forty-seven passengers on their voyage to the islands.
would take in left Waterloo in London at five minutes to nine in the morning with
The eS and ten passengers on board and arrived just after eleven o’clock. Thirty-
one aoe passengers went on board and the boat left ten minutes late at twenty-
seven O
past Laer was fine but rather cold — ten degrees (Fahrenheit)- and because Easter
The ere that year, there were not as many passengers as usual. So there was
was sO ea inside the saloon as well as on deck. Soon after they had passed the
lenty OF - the Isle of Wight, the Stella began her voyage of sixty-four
N edles lighthouse on € S
: towards the Casquets and the islands. She never arrived.
a y 189 9 there were two compognies which provided boat services to the islands,
the London and South-Western from Waterloo and Southampton and the Great
Western from Paddington and Weymouth. There was great competition between the
compognies to encourage the people to use their service. In 1890 the service from
Weymouth was carrying more passengers than that of Southampton, SO the LSWR
company ordered three new steamers to be built —the Frederica, the Lydia and the
Stella. The Frederica made the fastest passage at the beginning, but in the Guernsey
Star of 13" November 1890 there was a report that the Stella had made the voyage
from Jersey to Guernsey in about one hour twenty minutes. Five days later, another
report said that the same ship had passed the Needles lighthouse on the Isle of Wight
four hours and ten minutes after it had left the harbour in Guernsey. The GWR
. ° . e e y
company replied to this news with a report that its ship the Ibex had made the same
voyage in an extraordinary time in 1891 — three hours thirty minutes!

In the Guernsey Star of September 1891, another report told of a race between the

Frederica and the Ibex from the White Rock in Guernsey to Jersey which was won by
This competition carried on for some years

five

the Frederica by one and a half minutes.
ae we some accidents during that time. On Good Friday 1897, during another
pe a ieee and sailors of the crew were put ashore at Noirmont in
enquiry these ex hit a tock and was damaged. Even though there was an official
_ > Continued and the wreck of the Stella became one of the results.
indice was William Reeks, a man of forty-nine years
Came captain Pana, with the LSWR Company in 1874 as a crew member and
mpton, and h a He had his pilot’s certificate for Guernsey, Jersey and
We fad made the voyage between the islands and England hundreds
