he did not survive. The other, Mary Rogers, managed to put
ella and she ° to the boats, but she gave up her life-belt to a woman
us jn her mae 2h she saw so many people in the boat, she refused to get
ve one, and w “ ould sink it. She stayed on the deck until the ship sank
that one eae the Ste/la was almost under water. The bow was up in
into } : sai BY ts ee d had to jump into the water which was like ice. It was
a ee ose stil ae well — the temperature was in the forties. As one of the boats
the 2 jd in the nis the captain threw his binoculars into the boat; he knew that he
as es for the last time. 1 board were dr d. Anoth
use cap sized and the people on board we owned. O er two
ork fifth boat twenty passengers could have been saved. The officers tried to
and Sie water when the bow of the Stella went straight up in the air,
Bes and then disappeared under the water. The Captain and Chief

ment :
Saee on the bridge and they were drowned with the others who were on

ho .
Ww h ‘¢ n.
med.

Engineer W
though he had made the voyage hundreds of times before, that day Captain

d not calculated his position near the Casquets correctly.When the Stella was
Reels Bb the rocks, he thought that the tide would have taken him a mile and
a few miles from , aes
half to the west of the Casquets reef. But the neap-tide that day didn’t take him as
fa to the west as he thought, and because the fog was so thick, he couldn’t see the
tower of the Casquets to take his marks and change course. At the enquiry it was
suggested that the strong currents around the rocks had affected the navigation when
the ship found itself so close to the reef. All kinds of suggestions were made, but it
was very difficult to decide exactly what had happened. The men in the lighthouse
heard a ship which was giving off steam, but quite often there was so much fog, that
the ships which found themselves near the Casquets anchored and let off steam. These
men didn’t think anything of it and didn’t know that it had arrived so close to their
lighthouse.
It was at eight o’clock in the morning on Good Friday when the Vera and the Ibex
arrived in Guernsey with survivors whom they had found that the first news of the
tragedy was known. There had been fog everywhere on the island on the Thursday,
and when the Stella didn’t arrive at half past five as usual, it was supposed that it was
going slowly because of the weather. On Friday morning, there was a great crowd of
people at the White Rock and on the other jetties around the harbour. These people
saw the Vera arrive with some survivors and soon the story of the tragedy was all
round the town. The news was sent to Jersey, but the authorities did not believe it at
first. Later, when the Lynx arrived there, the jetties were full of very worried people.
Even though the relatives of people on board the Stella tried to find out what had
happened at the offices of the LSWR in the islands, at Southampton and at Waterloo,
no-one could help them. The only list of passengers was aboard the ship and when the
survivors landed, their names were not recorded as they should have been. Therefore
there were many mistakes made in the reports of the names of the drowned and those
who had survived, Even some months later, the exact number of drowned was not

poard.
Even

known. ,
Some drowned people were found all over the Channel, near Alderney, Cherbourg

and even at the mouth of the Seine. The English papers published the news and very
soon everyone knew about the disaster. By Saturday morning, all Guernsey was in
mourning and flags were flying at half-mast, In Jersey and in England it was the
same. Reports of the disaster continued for a long time in the press and the enquiries
took months because there had been so many people drowned,
