n 30" March 1899 the weather was fine when the
e rampeen at twenty-five minutes Past nine in the to ee Ae at
passed the Needles, her speed was eighteen and a half knots. The nae oi eee
lunch with the passengers and during that time, the Chief Officer cies dW = his
on the bridge to navigate. The horizon was no longer as clear and s pee tee

towards the ship. By half past three it was ve i :
= not see more than two or three hundred eeu choe os age ship vas pudee
the visibility was so bad, the ship continued its journey at more than citices es
something which was confirmed at the enquiry after the disaster by two pas ae
who had spoken with the Chief Engineer at that time and who had seen eee: Fee
counter of the engines. The fog whistle sounded from time to time but the a “ice
began to worry because the ship was still going so fast. ’ Passengers
A member of the crew was sent to the bow of the ship to li
the Casquets. The captain knew that he was about forty ants Gon pesos ie
had to be careful around this reef of rocks — one mistake, and he would find aac
amongst the dangerous reefs to the north of Guernsey. Another thing, he would lose
some time. Just before four o’clock, everyone on board should have heard the fog-
horn at the Casquets but they didn’t hear anything. At four o’clock they heard the fog-
horn which sounded in their ears right above the ship, and at the same time. the
member of the crew who had been at the bow of the Stella came running foward the
bridge shouting, Stop! Stop!” The men on the bridge saw an immense rock which
had appeared at the moment the fog had cleared, about forty-five yards in front of the
ship. At once, the captain ordered the engineer to put the engines in reverse, but it was
too late. The Stella scraped along the rock and then drove to the right when another
rock appeared and the keel hit three times with a noise, described at the enquiry by a
passenger, as if a train travelling very fast was trying to stop. The ship was pushed
further on to a reef of rocks with so much force that its engines were torn from their
place. It passed over these rocks and found itself in deeper water, but the water was
already coming through a gash cut through its length halfway up the hull.
The Second Officer George Reynolds, the only officer on the bridge who survived,
said later that there had been a feeling of a “strange calm.” The captain ordered the
small life-boats to be put into the water and said calmly, "Women and children first
and then the men.” There was some panic amongst the passengers. There were some
who had been asleep in their cabins or who had been lying in the benches in the
saloon and they had been thrown on to the floor. They didn’t have time to get dressed
but some women didn’t forget their jewellery boxes. There were plenty of life-belts
made of cork in the old-fashioned way. (700 for the passengers and 43 for the crew.)
The men watched as the little boats with their wives and children left the Stella but
there were some women who didn’t know what to do, and they cried out and wept on
the deck. They didn’t know that the Stella had only another seven minutes above
water. The sea was filling up the ship rapidly and it was already sinking by the stern
in 160 to 170 feet of water. The Chief Engineer managed to shut down the engines
and to allow the steam to escape and to close two water-tight doors. He realised that it
wouldn’t make any difference and he went to the bridge to report to the captain.
Things would have been worse if the little boats had not been put into the water so
quickly. Four boats were carrying almost all the women and children — but not all.
There were two stewardesses in the crew — for one, Ada Preston, it was her first

oon fog began to
