When beetles invaded Guernsey!

The evening of July 13th, 1967, was peaceful there was hardly any wind. The
boats anchored near the jetty at Saint’s in St. Martin’s didn’t move on the sea. A yacht
was anchored among the little boats of the fishermen and the two people on board
were fast asleep.

At that time, the ship President Garcia was passing close to the coast of Guernsey
en route from Sierra Leone in Africa to Rotterdam in Holland with a cargo of copra.
This copra is what is around coconuts before they are separated and the nuts are eaten
whilst the copra is used to make matting and other things. The ship was travelling at
twelve knots and there was no fog.

At twenty minutes before midnight this large ship found herself amongst the little
boats anchored at Saint’s and struck bow first into the cliffs which are two hundred
and fifty feet high there. Two young people who were at the little harbour had a great
shock when they saw the ship and they could see that she was not going to stop. They
said later that they felt the shock when she struck and the noise was terrible. She
passed between the yacht and some boats, but she sank some others.

Another man who saw the accident said later that he thought that the ship was going
to towards the Pea Stacks but she turned towards Moulin Huet. She turned again and
ended up by crashing into the cliffs. She had not reduced speed at all and when she
struck, the noise was terrible. He fetched a friend and the two men went to the harbour
to salvage engines and what was left of the boats.

The captain, when was interviewed by the authorities, said that no-one would be
allowed ashore during the night. When he was shown the charts of where the ship
was, he could not believe it. He believed that he was near Ushant —an island in
Brittany, one hundred and twenty miles away! It was high tide and it was decided to
try and remove the ship from her position against the cliffs. The engines were put in
reverse, but the bow would not move. It was very damaged and water was entering
the ship.

Two tugs arrived from Holland and tried for an hour and a half to tow her from
there, but without success. It was hot during those days, and the crew opened the
hatches to allow air into the hold. Two or three days later, hundreds of beetles flew
from inside the hold towards St. Martin’s. People had to close their windows -the
insects were everywhere. All over the island people found them and they were a
nuisance.

There were plans to unload part of the cargo to lighten the ship which would help,
perhaps, the tugs to pull her from where she was. There was also a risk of pollution
for oil was leaking into the sea. Three hundred tonnes of copra were taken on’ board
two ships from Holland and that helped the tugs. A week after the President Garcia
found herself at Saint’s, the tugs Willem Barrenz and Utrecht managed to pull her
from there. They began at five in the afternoon and for more than an hour the two
large powerful tugs did their best. At six o’clock the ship began to move and
suddenly, at eighteen minutes past six, she had slipped into deep water. All those who
had been watching from the cliffs and from small boats cheered and clapped their
hands. The ship sounded her siren as she was towed towards Town. There only
remained some oil on the water to show that a ship had spent a week there.
