A shipwreck -and a jot of wine.

There still some peopte who can remember the strange wreck of a ship on the rocks
at Albecq on the first of October, 1937. The result of this wreck was a lot of drinking
and a lot of iaughter.

The Briseis, a French ship of three thousand tons, was carrying a cargo of wine,
spirits and other things. She had been built in Germany in 1917 and was en route from
Oran to Rouen in Normandy. A fisherman who saw the ship too close to the rocks
near there, said later that he was sure that she would not be able to avoid hitting the
teef known as Les Grunes.

When the ship struck, the captain stopped the engines and then started them again to
take her off the rocks. He wanted to reach as far as Vazon which is a sandy beach and
he hoped to save the vessel. Perhaps the steering gear was damaged because he found
himself amongst the rocks at the end of the point at Houmet. It was a good thing that
the ship sank before hitting a rock and no-one lost his life.

Soon, a great crowd of people arrived to find out what had happened. There were
hundreds of them along the coast, attracted by the non-stop noise of the ship’s siren.
By this time, all could see that the bow was well down in the water and that the stern
was beginning to rise into the air. Suddenly the bow slid under water and at the same
time the boilers burst and sent water and steam right up into the air. The ship sank
completely — there were only the tops of its chimney and masts which showed above
the sea.

There was some bother around there later! As soon as the ship began to break up,
the barrels of wine and spirits floated along the beach and on to the sand. There were
hundreds of them and those who were watching rushed down the beach to “save” the
barrels. They thought that Christmas was early that year! When the captain of the
Briseis, Léon Le Hellidu, realised that the ship was sinking, he had ordered the crew
to abandon ship and they all climbed into the small boats. A little later the fishermen
arrived in their boats and towed the survivors to Grand Havre. It appears that the
vessel sank in about seventy feet of water and that there was only six feet of water
over the Grunes when it struck.

When the captain was taken to the scene to assess the situation, he was very
distressed because he could not understand how the wreck had happened — he had a
great deal of experience of navigating around Guernsey, especially along the west
coast. The Briseis had been holed under the bow and it was possible that there was
damage to the keel as well.

As soon as possible the authorities published an advertisement about the ships
cargo. Everything found on the beach or floating in the sea had to be declared to the
States’ Supervisor. There were almost three hundred barrels of Algerian wine on
board and only a few were declared. Some were found near St. Martin’s point; others
near Sark, to the north of the island and beyond.

All this time, other barrels were tapped on the beach amongst the rocks and people
drank the wine there or filled bottles, cans - anything in which could they could carry
the wine home, even (it was said later) chamber-pots!

Pa)
