The Casquets.

At any time, the reef of the Casquets is dangerous. No matter if boat is large or
small, if the sea is rough or smooth elsewhere, there are always swells, bad tides or
currents around these rocks and it is soon in trouble. The reef is seven miles to the
west of Alderney and extends nearly a mile from east to west with larger reefs to the
north and south. Apart from these large rocks which always show above the water —
there are some which are fifty to eighty feet high there are other reefs which are
covered by only three or four feet of water at high tide. The large rocks are called
Lighthouse Rock, La Callotte, Little Casquet, L’Auquiére and Noire Roque. At first,
when it was reported that the Stelfa had struck the Casquets on monday, March 30"
1899, the authorities could not say for sure which rock it was. Later it became clear
that the first rock it scraped past was L’ Auquiére which is forty-four feet above high
tide and is just to the west of the rock with the lighthouse. At high spring tide, the sea
rises and falls as much as thirty feet at the Casquets. When the Captain tried to avoid
hitting L’ Auquiére, he steered to the right but straight in front of him he saw the Noire
Roque. When he changed course again, the ship was taken over the reef that was
under the water between the two rocks. He was going so fast that he did not have the
chance to stop and the ship was wrecked.

Besides the dangers of the sea, the tides and the currents around the Casquets, there
was always the danger of fog. The lighthouse had a foghorn, but it was not always
possible to hear it from all directions. That day, in 1899, the fog was so thick that a
man was sent to the bow of the ship to watch and listen for the foghorn. If the ship
had passed only a hundred yards to the west of the Noire Roque, it would have arrived
as usual in Guernsey.

For centuries, shipwrecks have been reported on the Casquets reef. In 1120, it is
said, the only son of Henry | of England was drowned there during a storm,with one
of his sisters and all the crew of the ship La Blanche Nef or the White Ship in English.
If you talk about it to people from Barfleur in the Cotentin near Cherbourg, they will
tell you that Prince William was drowned just outside the little harbour there. This
name is well known in the history of England because Henry did not have another son
to succeed him as heir to the crown. The result was nineteen years of civil war
between Mathilda, (a daughter of William the Conqueror and sister of Henry 1* ) and
one of her cousins, Stephen of Boulogne. The death of the young prince changed the
history of England.

In 1701 the ship Michael was en route to Lisbon in Portugal when it struck one of
the rocks at the Casquets, but a few days later all the crew was saved by another ship.
The men had found limpets, some fish and enough fresh water to survive.

Eight years later, the Governor of Alderney asked Queen Anne of England if he
could build a tower on the Casquets and put a light there to warn mariners of the
danger around there. The rocks were rented to a man called Le Patourel who had to
look after a coal fire to warn mariners of the danger. The coal was brought to the
Casquets, probably from Alderney, when the weather was fine. After sixty years, in
1785, the Governor at that time, Peter Le Mesurier, became the tenant. In 1785 , three
towers were built —Donjon, St. Pierre and St. Thomas. At first the light was a coal
fire, and then it was an oil lamp. In 1790 it was a lamp able to revolve.

In 1774 also, the frigate Victory sank at the Casquets with eleven hundred men on
board. The next warship of that name was Admiral Nelson’s ship which was at the
battle of Trafalgar on October 21° 1805.

37
