starboard side under the water-line. On the other side, to port, there were holes and it
was possible to see right through the ship. A search of the boat found the body of a
man but he was unrecognisable. Some jewellery found with him identified him —-he
was a Mr. Walter Long from Bradford in England. His wife had been saved.

On the same day, August 4”, a body was found on a beach near Cherbourg. It was a
man and he was about sixty years old. At the Court of Enquiry which followed the
disaster, Captain Whales was found guilty of negligence. He should have taken more
care and the ship was too near the rock La Gouliniére.

On October 5" 1906, the Courier was towed to Southampton where she was built
and the company Day &Summers did the repairs on the ship which they had
constructed. By the month of December that same year, the Courier was in Guernsey
‘once more to continue her service as she had done for years. During the First World
War she was painted grey, but during the Second World War, the ship found herself
in Scottand, on British Admiralty service on the Clyde. The little steamer came back
to the island in July 1947 and there was a great crowd of people at the harbour to
shout, “Hurray!” and blowing of fog-horns when she entered the pier-heads.
However, unfortunately before the end of the year, the owners sold her because she
was too old and cost too much to maintain. She was taken to Holland where she was
broken up for scrap. That is how the story of the Courier I] ended, but for a long time
the people of Guernsey remembered her. Some verses about the wreck were even
written by a Mr. Amy.

The ship which sank near Jethou was the second Courier. The first boat went
between Guernsey, Alderney and Cherbourg from 1876 to1913 with passengers and
cargo. The same company which were the proprietors of the Courier I, Alderney
Steam Packet Co., bought the Courier 7 in 1883. She was a little bigger and did the
same work on the same route,

