The Prosperity.

On January 16" 1974, the harbourmaster at St. Peter Port received a message at the
White Rock station that a ship was in danger close to Guernsey. What followed was
one of the worst disasters around the coast of the island during the 1970's. At ten
minutes to four on that afternoon it was blowing a gale. The message gave the
position of the ship — she was between twenty and twenty-five miles to the west of the
Hanois (lighthouse). The lifeboat Sir William Arnold left the harbour at that time, but
at eleven o’clock the coxswain in charge, John Petit, sent a message which said that
the storm was so strong — force 11- that it was impossible to see anything because of
the excessive spray and the rollers which were twenty-five feet high.

The next day, the lifeboat tried again to find the ship in danger. It left the harbour at
six-thirty in the morning and it went to search along the south coast until it was sent
towards La Conchée, a rock near Perelle. There the crew saw the ship Prosperity
aground on the reef of rocks. She had been lost with all on board in full view of land
and the enormous ship Elwood Mead which had struck Les Grunes outside Vazon on
Christmas day.

The Sir William Arnold found seven bodies in the sea about a mile from Pleinmont
and transferred another four from a German steamer which had found them. Sixteen
bodies were found, one was the young wife of the captain, but Captain Geoggiou
Kastellorizias and the boatswain Uzoglan Ibrahim were never found. Later the
authorities found out that the ship had been en route from Finland to the
Mediterranean. She carried a cargo of wood. Because of the bad weather, the ship
broke in two and her cargo of wood was thrown into the water. A lot of this wood
floated along the coast and was collected from the beaches and from the bottom of the
cliffs by the Guernsey people. The police guarded some great piles of wood on the
beaches but it had been announced that people could collect the wood until midday.
There were hundreds who went with their lorries and even wheelbarrows to gather
what they could. The beaches and rocks were covered with wood. Later, the
authorities said that the announcement was not correct and all the wood should be
handed to the police. The greater part of it was returned.

Th police sent the bodies of five men to Greece to be buried in their country; the
other members of the crew were buried at the Foulon (Cemetery), those who were
Muslim were buried according to the last rites of their religion.

A fund was begun to build a monument to the memory of those who had been
drowned during that terrible night, and it was built at L’Erée in sight of La Conchée.
At low tide it is possible to see a part of her engine — that is all that is left of the
Prosperity.

It is a tragedy that, if the sailors had stayed on board, perhaps they might have been
able to climb on to the reef of La Conchée at tow water,
